A divided Democratic convention formally nominated Hillary Clinton for president on Tuesday, making history as the first major political party to choose a woman as its standard-bearer, even as a small faction of Bernie Sanders supporters walked out to protest her victory and policies.
South Dakota cast the decisive 15 votes at 6:39 p.m., putting Mrs. Clinton over the threshold of 2,382 delegates required to clinch the nomination. But Mr. Sanders played a symbolic role in hopes of unifying the party behind her.
After his state, Vermont, arranged to go last in the roll call, Mr. Sanders joined its delegation to roars of “Bernie, Bernie” and called on the party to rally behind Mrs. Clinton.
“Madam Chair, I move that the convention suspend the procedural rules, I move that all votes, all votes cast by delegates be reflected in the official record, and I move that Hillary Clinton be selected as the nominee of the Democratic Party for president of the United States,” he said.
The arena exploded in cheers as a sea of delegates waved multicolored signs with Mrs. Clinton’s “H” campaign logo, while others fell into hugs and several women jumped up and down with joy. Mr. Sanders, his lips pressed together, hugged his wife, Jane, one of his closest political advisers, and waved briefly to the crowd before heading out of the hall less than a minute after he spoke.

Vince Insalaco, the chairman of the Democratic Party of Arkansas, where Mrs. Clinton and former President Bill Clinton built their public profile over two decades, said the choosing of the first female presidential nominee was a historic moment.

“I’m so proud to be a Democrat tonight,” Mr. Insalaco said, “and so proud that we can call this woman one of our own.”

Continue reading the main story


Presidential Election 2016
The latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.
Mayor Muriel Bowser of Washington Speaks Up for Statehood
JUL 26
Democratic Convention Night 2: What You Missed So Far
JUL 26
Watch the Democratic Convention Night 2 Live
JUL 26
Assange Timed WikiLeaks Release of Democratic Emails to Harm Hillary Clinton
JUL 26
The Scene at the Democratic Convention: Hunger, Heat and Storms
JUL 26
See More »

RELATED COVERAGE


The Scene at the Democratic Convention: Hunger, Heat and Storms JULY 26, 2016

A Worry if Hillary Clinton Wins: What to Do With Bill JULY 26, 2016
But elsewhere on the floor, several dozen Sanders delegates paraded off in a coordinated demonstration against Mrs. Clinton’s nomination. Several of them said beforehand that they were attending their first Democratic convention and felt no party loyalty or compulsion to fall in line behind Mrs. Clinton, whom they described as insufficiently progressive on new banking regulations, a $15 minimum wage, a ban on fracking and other issues.

Live From the Democratic National Convention »
Hillary Clinton became the Democratic presidential nominee on Tuesday.
Does Bill Clinton have another vintage performance in him?
Can a poignant speaking roster shift the tone?
“I’m just not there yet in terms of supporting Hillary, because her words are only her words, and I don’t fully trust that she’ll act on our agenda,” said Ingrid Olson, 38, a delegate from Iowa, where Mr. Sanders narrowly lost the first-in-the-nation caucuses in February.

Ms. Olson argued that party unity was a myth, saying that some Clinton campaign officials canvassing the floor had banned the homemade signs of Sanders supporters but handed out ones that championed Mrs. Clinton.

The final delegate count was 2,842 for Mrs. Clinton, 1,865 for Mr. Sanders and 56 “no votes.”

The scenes in the convention hall were far different from those at the party’s gathering in Denver in 2008, when Mrs. Clinton, defeated for the nomination, moved to stop the roll-call vote and nominate Barack Obama. Her gesture, aimed at soothing the bitterness of the primary fight, helped some of her supporters make peace with Mr. Obama and embrace his barrier-breaking candidacy as the first African-American nominee of a major party.

Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton had their own brutal competition this year, and their policy differences were greater than those of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama — part of why many of his supporters are reluctant to get behind her. On the convention floor on Tuesday, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said, in a walk-through before his scheduled speech on Wednesday night, that the Sanders delegates had already had a huge impact on the Democratic Party.

”Bernie did more to change the party than the party did to change him,” he said. “The Sanders delegates worked hard. They did more to change the attitude of the party than anyone in a long time.”

The walkout by Sanders supporters on Tuesday did not define or overshadow the moment the way the steady stream of boos that rained down at the mention of Mrs. Clinton’s name on Monday did. Still, the party’s divisions remained in plain sight.

Many states announced that they had split their delegates by having representatives of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders speak separately. And it was clear that some Sanders supporters were not ready to give up. Tim Vandeveer, the chairman of the Hawaii Democratic Party, announced that Mr. Sanders had won a majority of the state’s delegates, calling him “the leader of our revolution, which shall continue.”

Even some state officials who proclaimed the delegate tallies for both candidates left little doubt about their preference. After Nebraska’s Vince Powers called Mrs. Clinton “honest and hard-working,” he turned to Mr. Sanders, “the man who electrified Nebraska and the United States.”

Some of Mr. Sanders’s most passionate supporters demonstrated over the first two days of the convention that they were unmoved by appeals to unity and cared little about a party many of them are connected to only loosely.

“They’re not local party officials,” Mr. Sanders acknowledged to reporters on Tuesday. “They are new people, they are young people, they are passionate people.”

That was evident Tuesday evening in the concourse, where one young woman from California, who declined to give her name, was crying and being consoled by fellow Sanders supporters.

“I got pushed by a Hillary delegate,” the woman explained.

Another supporter of Mr. Sanders, Steven Abreu, stood silently in the concourse holding a pro-Clinton “Do the most good” sign that had been marked up to read, “DNC the most corrupt.” Another sign had been changed to say, “Do superdelegates the most good.”

“Emails, WikiLeaks — there’s more and more coming out, and there’s only so much they can do to undo the damage that has been done over the last year,” said Mr. Abreu, 27, who is attending his first convention.

Mr. Sanders himself faced boos on Tuesday morning as his restive supporters protested his efforts to persuade them to vote for Mrs. Clinton in order to defeat Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee.

After making the rounds at several breakfast gatherings, Mr. Sanders was met with a loud chorus of jeers from members of the California delegation. The backlash started immediately, with many people in the audience giving him a thumbs-down sign. But Mr. Sanders quickly chided them.

“It is easy to boo,” he said. “But it is harder to look your kids in the face who would be living under a Donald Trump presidency.”

That seemed to silence most of the audience as Mr. Sanders finished his brief remarks. He argued that supporting the Democratic ticket this year did not mean giving up on the goals of his campaign.

“What the political revolution means is we keep going,” he said. “We think big, not small. We have the guts to take on the billionaire class.”

At one point during the breakfast with California delegates, a couple of dozen aggressive Sanders supporters burst into loud chanting as Representative Xavier Becerra took the stage. Several protesters rushed up with signs, trying to block the cameras.

The chants continued even as some Clinton supporters chanted “Hillary! Hillary!” to try to drown out the Sanders supporters. A fight almost broke out when a Sanders activist started screaming that he had been kicked by a woman supporting Mrs. Clinton.

Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Sanders spoke to delegates from Wisconsin, Montana and Alaska, and was met with tense silence when he made the case for Mrs. Clinton. He started by calling Mr. Trump “the worst, least-prepared candidate for president in my lifetime.”

“We have got to, obviously, elect Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Sanders said, as many in the room sat quietly.

He quickly went on to deliver a line that roused the crowd, saying that his supporters must “stay focused on our issues and force every level of government to represent working people.”

Even as resistance persisted, Mr. Sanders expressed optimism that his supporters would eventually come around, while empathizing with their feelings of disappointment.

“Democracy is a little bit messy sometimes, especially for young people who work their hearts out,” Mr. Sanders said at a breakfast sponsored by Bloomberg Politics. “They worked against Hillary Clinton, and now we’re saying, ‘We want you on board to support Hillary Clinton.’ ”