Hillary Clinton has been formally nominated as the Democratic presidential candidate, a first for a woman in a major party in the United States. Her husband, former President Bill Clinton, makes the case for Mrs. Clinton on Tuesday night. Here are a few other things to expect on Tuesday (and check out Monday’s best photos):

Photo

Delegates officially nominated Hillary Clinton at the Democratic National Convention on Tuesday. Credit Eric Thayer for The New York Times
Hillary Clinton became the Democratic presidential nominee on Tuesday.

Democrats formally nominated Hillary Clinton for president on Tuesday, looking to move beyond the lingering anger that has brought protests and dissension to their convention as they unite behind the first female candidate to represent a major American political party.

Mrs. Clinton officially became the party’s standard-bearer in a roll-call vote of delegates on the floor of the convention. During the voting, Senator Bernie Sanders, who rallied millions of voters to his side in his battle against Mrs. Clinton, could be seen tearing up with his wife, Jane, sitting by his side.

After Mrs. Clinton had secured the nomination, Mr. Sanders made a motion to stop the voting and make Mrs. Clinton the nominee by acclamation.

Does Bill Clinton have another vintage performance in him?

For a generation now, this has been a safe bet: If it’s a Democratic convention, Mr. Clinton will be making a speech people will remember.

While the former president has occasionally created campaign headaches for his wife’s team — most recently for speaking with Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch as the Justice Department investigated Mrs. Clinton’s email practices — he remains a powerful surrogate, uniquely suited to testify to her strengths.

Four years ago, his speech on behalf of President Obama was a signature moment of the Charlotte convention — a spirited, point-by-point rebuttal of Republican arguments against the first Obama term.

This time, Mr. Clinton’s cause is even more personal. A campaign official said Mr. Clinton would, among other things, outline his wife’s history as an agent for change. We look at what kind of role he might have if the Clintons make it back into the White House.

 
DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION 2016 By SHANE O’NEILL and MARK LANDLER 2:27
Bill Clinton, a Convention Fixture
Video
Bill Clinton, a Convention Fixture
For a generation, this has been a safe bet: If it’s a Democratic convention, Bill Clinton will be making a speech there that people will remember. The Times White House correspondent Mark Landler explains. By SHANE O’NEILL and MARK LANDLER on Publish Date July 26, 2016. Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times. Watch in Times Video »
 Embed
ShareTweet

Can a poignant speaking roster shift the tone?

In a week of high-wattage political speakers, the slate on Tuesday includes a more searing entry: mothers who have lost children in clashes with the police or in other gun violence.

Many of the “Mothers of the Movement” — which includes the mothers of Michael Brown, Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner and Tamir Rice — have developed a relationship with Mrs. Clinton. In November, several were flown in for a gathering with the candidate in Chicago to tell their stories and discuss their advocacy.

Here are some of the other speakers scheduled for Tuesday ....

• Representative Nancy Pelosi of California

• Senator Barbara Boxer of California

• Jimmy Carter, former president, in a video message

• Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota

• Eric Holder, former U.S. attorney general

• Cecile Richards, of Planned Parenthood

• Lena Dunham, the actress

Here’s how they differ from the Republican lineup.

... and what you may have missed.

• The convention began with a struggle for unity, but it closed on Monday with some signs of healing as Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Michelle Obama, part of a star-filled lineup, each gave speeches that roused the crowd. But Mr. Sanders found himself trying to quell a revolt that he had begun.

• The fallout continues over the email leak that led Debbie Wasserman Schultz to resign as chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. Protesters seized on the emails, the F.B.I. opened an investigation into the leak, Democrats increased their accusations that Russia was to blame, and the episode showed just how big money works.

