Is the Donald Trump convention bounce for real?
Trump certainly thinks so. “We had, I believe, the largest bump in the history of convention,” the GOP presidential nominee boasted Monday night at a campaign event in North Carolina.
Story Continued Below

But polls conducted in the wake of last week’s Republican convention render a split verdict on the question of whether he got any bounce at all: Some show Trump vaulting over Hillary Clinton and into the lead. Others show no change whatsoever, with Trump and Clinton still locked in a neck-and-neck race.
The reality lies somewhere in the middle: Trump likely didn’t get the 5-or-6-point bounce suggested by CNN/ORC International or Morning Consult. Nor is Trump’s support stagnant coming out of his convention, as an NBC News/SurveyMonkey poll out Tuesday suggests.
On balance, the immediate evidence points to a small bounce for the GOP nominee — not the massive burst of momentum about which Trump is boasting.
05_Donald_Trump_25_gty_1160.jpg
New poll: No convention bounce for Trump
By LOUIS NELSON
Democrats here this week for their party’s convention concede the race has narrowed — a process that began earlier this month when federal investigators revealed the results of the investigation into Clinton’s private email server, though the Justice Department declined to pursue charges.
But with the abrupt shift from the Republican convention last week to the Democrats this week, the more important question is: How durable is Trump’s standing?
“When you look at conventions, I think what’s important is not to look at any one poll in between conventions, or right before a convention,” Clinton pollster Joel Benenson said Monday at a breakfast sponsored by The Atlantic magazine. “I think what you really want to do is wait until about seven days after the second convention when a bounce for one [candidate] comes, a bounce for the other comes, and then the race is going to settle in again to where it has been.”
The Republican convention wasn’t the perfect picture of unity, and the Democrats’ gathering is off to a fraught start, too. But convention bounces are common and follow a predictable pattern, and the polling tends to be more predictive after both conventions are completed.
The largest convention bounce in the modern era of televised conventions was Bill Clinton’s bump in 1992 — when, according to Gallup, Clinton surged 16 points. That convention, in New York, began with dissension among Democrats divided between Clinton and Jerry Brown, the then-former California governor.

Even in the most optimistic polls for Trump, his bounce has fallen well short of some of the top-performing candidates historically. And there isn’t much correlation between the size of a candidate’s post-convention bump and their success in November: Jimmy Carter, for example, got a 10-point bounce in 1980 but lost to Ronald Reagan.
While the Clinton campaign has sought to downplay Trump’s bounce to the media, it has emphasized the urgency of the top-line results to its supporters.
Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook reiterated the note of caution to supporters in a fundraising email Tuesday. With the subject line “Trump 44, Clinton 39,” referring to the results of the subsequent, four-way ballot test in the CNN/ORC poll, the email made reference to Trump “eating away at our lead, and after his convention, he's erased it entirely."
Even after Mook acknowledged that candidates generally get bounces after their respective conventions, he added, “But that doesn't make these next few weeks any less critical.”
“We need to let people know what we stand for, and we need to solidify the organization that can get them to the polls come November. With the polls leaning in the wrong direction, your contribution has never been more critical,” Mook wrote, with a large “Donate $1” button below.
Trump’s joint fundraising committee with the Republican National Committee, meanwhile, delighted in the appeal, re-purposing it as fundraising email for their own nominee.
“[W]e’re winning and they’re terrified,” it said.
It’s not unusual for the public polls to bounce around following high-profile events like conventions or debates. Some of the models that track public polling, like The New York Times’ “Upshot” or FiveThirtyEight, try to account for the historical volatility by adjusting polls taken during the bounce period. That’s one reason why Clinton remains ahead in the Upshot forecast and in FiveThirtyEight’s “polls-plus” model.
The compression of big news events this month — FBI statement fallout, the conventions and naming of running mates — also makes it difficult to discern what’s driving any movement in the race.
03_hillary_clinton_15_gty_1160.jpg
2016
Hillary Clinton breaks the glass ceiling
By NOLAN D. MCCASKILL
Democrats get their shot now: Clinton has unveiled Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine, and the party is in the middle of a four-night infomercial that’s already attracting a large television audience.
Whatever happens, it likely won’t dissuade Trump from bragging about the size of his post-convention bump.
“We had, like, the biggest bounce that anyone can remember,” Trump said earlier Monday in a rambling start to his stump speech at an event in Roanoke, Virginia. “They said, ‘Well, if he gets out of the convention with no bounce, that will be a success.’”
“Did we have 9 points or something? Ten points? We’re leading — we’re actually leading in the polls. And the CNN poll was so good, I may have to start liking them again. I mean, I don’t know. No, they treat me unfairly. But you know what’s more important? The poll. But, you know, the big poll, the big poll this Nov. 8th — that’s the poll we care about, right?”
Nick Gass reported from Arlington, Virginia.


Read more: http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/donald-trump-convention-bounce-226243#ixzz4FZdvcDiL 
Follow us: @politico on Twitter | Politico on Facebook