Donald Trump is vowing to win over "millions of Democrats" through his staunch opposition to free trade deals he says have been disastrous for American workers.
In formally accepting the GOP nomination Thursday, Trump told the Republican National Convention that his opposition to trade deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership would attract Democrats who voted for Sen. Bernie Sanders over former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton — and argued that the Vermont independent lost in a "rigged" primary system.
Story Continued Below

"But his supporters will join our movement, because we will fix his biggest single issue: trade deals that strip our country of its jobs," Trump vowed. "Millions of Democrats will join our movement because we are going to fix the system so it works fairly and justly for each and every American."
Sanders was having none of it, however. "What a hypocrite!" the senator's campaign tweeted during the speech. "If Trump wants to 'fix' trade he can start by making his products in the US, not low-wage countries abroad."
Trump said his "vision" for American workers "begins with a new, fair trade policy that protects our jobs and stands up to countries that cheat, of which there are many. It’s been a signature message of my campaign from day one, and it will be a signature feature of my presidency from the moment I take the oath of office."
Donald Trump's full acceptance Republican nomination speech
2016
Trump claims the prize
By SHANE GOLDMACHER
The real estate mogul has made his opposition to free trade agreements a cornerstone of his campaign, arguing to the convention that he would "turn our bad trade agreements into great trade agreements," including renegotiating NAFTA. And both Trump and Sanders have capitalized on their opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Clinton had initially spoken favorably about the 12-nation trade agreement, but has since backed off.
In his acceptance speech Thursday, Trump hammered Clinton on a slew of trade deals from the Obama and Clinton administrations, including TPP, NAFTA and a free trade pact with South Korea. He accused Clinton of supporting "virtually every trade agreement that has been destroying our middle class" and pledged to instead take a harder line.
"I pledge to never sign any trade agreement that hurts our workers or that diminishes our freedom and independence. We will never ever side bad trade deals. America first again," Trump said. "Instead, I will make individual deals with individual countries.
"No longer will we enter into these massive transactions, with many countries, that are thousands of pages long – and which no one from our country even reads or understands," he said.


Read more: http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/rnc-2016-donald-trump-trade-225993#ixzz4FZeGHWH7 
Follow us: @politico on Twitter | Politico on Facebook