The 9 most outrageous statements from Trump's victory lap
The Republican National Convention had no shortage of controversy, but to Trump, it was 'one of the most love-filled conventions in the history of conventions.'
By TYLER PAGER 07/22/16 11:41 AM EDT
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
On Thursday night, Donald Trump accepted the Republican nomination for president with a scripted, somber address where he painted himself as the lone candidate able to brink the nation back from the brink of ruin.
Friday morning, the newly-minted nominee took the stage for a stream-association session that was, in equal measure, a victory lap, a stand-up comedy set and a rehash of his most controversial statements from the GOP primary.
Story Continued Below

Here are some of the highlights.
1) "Honestly, [Ted Cruz] may have ruined his political career. I feel so badly. I feel so badly. And, you know, he'll come and endorse over the next little while, he'll come because he has no choice. I don't want his endorsement. What difference does it make? I don't want his endorsement. Ted, stay home, relax, enjoy yourself."
2) "[Melania] didn't need to marry me, she was making a lot of money, believe me. In fact, I had to work hard to get her to marry me. It wasn't that easy."
3) "This was a magazine [National Enquirer] that frankly in many respects should be very respected, they got O.J., they got Edwards, they've got this. I mean if that was the New York Times they would have gotten Pulitzer Prizes for their reporting. I've always said why didn't the National Enquirer get the Pulitzer Prize for Edwards and O.J. Simpson and all of these things?"
4) "That guy [Harold Hamm] takes a straw, puts it in the ground and oil pours out of it. That’s the kind of a guy we want telling us about energy."
5) "I was just on the cover of Time again this week. Time Magazine, OK, I think I was on the cover of Time Magazine twice in my life and six times in the last number of months. So you tell me, which is more important real estate or politics, OK?"
6) "This was probably one of the most peaceful, one of the most beautiful, one of the most love-filled conventions in the history of conventions."
Trump declares his convention 'one of the best ever'
Trump yanks back the spotlight
By NICK GASS

7) "I mean, Harold [Hamm] can write his checks, but Harold's only one vote, right? These other people give you $50, but they vote by the millions. That's what we want. To hell with Harold, right?"
8) "Now, it wasn't my fault, but I think it went like an hour and 25 minutes. And the networks didn't know what to do because they had all of their programming, big programming, their local news is a very big factor on television. You never, ever move your local news. They all moved it. They said, the heck with the local news, Mike, they said we're moving it."
9) "Nobody's going to watch this next convention coming. Who's going to? I'm going to have a hard time watching [Clinton's] final speech. Number one, I know her too well. Number two, boring."


Read more: http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/trump-victory-lap-statements-226021#ixzz4FZedQ0dI 
Follow us: @politico on Twitter | Politico on Facebook